README.md, before:

*Modification of original plugin by [AleDel](https://github.com/AleDel/Spout-UE4) with UE versions 4.19+.*

**This was tested with:**
* 4.19
* 4.20
* 4.21
* 4.22
* 4.23 
* 4.24
* 4.25

# Spout-UE4
This is a [Spout](http://spout.zeal.co/) Plugin for Unreal Engine. It allows you to send and receive textures using Spout framework.

# Installation and Use

Clone the repository in your Plugin folder.

If you don't know what 'clone' means, then just download the whole repository, unzip it and put the code in _Plugins_ folder (for example "_yourproject/Plugins/Spout-UE4_"). For detailed instructions please refer to [Unreal Engine 4 and Lightact Video Tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLcNPGta1d2XDcSsz8zcW0f2lPSawnW3mR). This video is a good step-by-step walkthrough of how to set up your project for use with the plugin.

## Sending Spout

This is done with the **Spout sender** node which has can send texture either from the Game viewport or from a Render Targert 2D: 
  * **Game Viewport** sends the image of the viewport, but please note that it doesn't work in standalone or packaged game.
  * **TextureRenderTarget2D** in which case you should create a _SceneCaptureComponent2D_ and a *Render target 2D* which you should reference in the node.

Use **Close Sender** node to close Spouts. The best way is to connect it to **Event EndPlay** node.

## Working sample

On Lightact website you can download [Lightact & Unreal Engine Sample Project](https://lightact-systems.com/product/lightact-and-unreal-engine/). It has both this and [Lightact plugin](https://github.com/lightact/Lightact-UE4)   enabled.

## Packaged game
To make this plugin work in a packaged game you have to disable using 'pak' files. You do that by:
1. going to File->Package project->Packaging settings
2. once there uncheck 'Use Pak File' checkbox

This is only necessary if you are using the *Mat* pin on the *Spout Receiver* node.

## Troubleshooting
If you are a Lightact user, please refer to [Lightact Answerhub](https://answerhub.lightact-systems.com/).

Commit message:

Update Readme.md: this plugin is not maintained anymore

README.md, after:

# Important
As of January 2021, this fork of the original Spout-UE4 plugin by [AleDel](https://github.com/AleDel/Spout-UE4) is not maintained anymore by VISIBLE d.o.o. (owner of LightAct media server). The reason is that as of release 3.7.0, LightAct has stopped relying on Spout for texture sharing and uses native Texture Sharing instead.

You can get more information about the new workflow on [Media Server for Unreal Engine](https://lightact.io/unreal-engine/) page.

If you are looking for Spout-UE4 plugin, please go the original repository by [AleDel](https://github.com/AleDel/Spout-UE4).

For the purpose of reference, we are leaving the previous readme file accessible below.

---


*Modification of original plugin by [AleDel](https://github.com/AleDel/Spout-UE4) with UE versions 4.19+.*

**This was tested with:**
* 4.19
* 4.20
* 4.21
* 4.22
* 4.23 
* 4.24
* 4.25

# Spout-UE4
This is a [Spout](http://spout.zeal.co/) Plugin for Unreal Engine. It allows you to send and receive textures using Spout framework.

# Installation and Use

Clone the repository in your Plugin folder.

If you don't know what 'clone' means, then just download the whole repository, unzip it and put the code in _Plugins_ folder (for example "_yourproject/Plugins/Spout-UE4_"). For detailed instructions please refer to [Unreal Engine 4 and Lightact Video Tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLcNPGta1d2XDcSsz8zcW0f2lPSawnW3mR). This video is a good step-by-step walkthrough of how to set up your project for use with the plugin.

## Sending Spout

This is done with the **Spout sender** node which has can send texture either from the Game viewport or from a Render Targert 2D: 
  * **Game Viewport** sends the image of the viewport, but please note that it doesn't work in standalone or packaged game.
  * **TextureRenderTarget2D** in which case you should create a _SceneCaptureComponent2D_ and a *Render target 2D* which you should reference in the node.

Use **Close Sender** node to close Spouts. The best way is to connect it to **Event EndPlay** node.

## Working sample

On Lightact website you can download [Lightact & Unreal Engine Sample Project](https://lightact-systems.com/product/lightact-and-unreal-engine/). It has both this and [Lightact plugin](https://github.com/lightact/Lightact-UE4)   enabled.

## Packaged game
To make this plugin work in a packaged game you have to disable using 'pak' files. You do that by:
1. going to File->Package project->Packaging settings
2. once there uncheck 'Use Pak File' checkbox

This is only necessary if you are using the *Mat* pin on the *Spout Receiver* node.

## Troubleshooting
If you are a Lightact user, please refer to [Lightact Answerhub](https://answerhub.lightact-systems.com/).
